VPN stands for a virtual private network.
And this is technology that enable us to have a private tunnel and connection over a public internet
which is encrypted so that only us and decide that we are connected to is able to read the data that
is transmitted.
So for example when you are logging into public networks either at Starbucks or when you visiting a
hotel when you are travelling you will most likely find that there they provide some kind of public
Internet service for our customers.
So if you log on that network and you don't use for example a VPN then anyone else who is under the
Internet as well which have some baggage sniffing software running is actually capable of collecting
the Pegasus packages that you are transmitting.
And if they are not encrypted they can basically read them.
So we want to have measures such as we begin to secure our data and also by using VPN we can rely on
that the information that we are accessing is kept confidential.
And this is especially needed if you're working for a company and you need to access some company resource
then you don't want a competitors or anyone else to look at these files as well.
So let's look at the two ways that we have within the first one is clan to site so clan to side is where
we as a user connect either to our home network or our war work space.
It can also be to our club if we have by at some club that have a private network.
But basically we connect as a user to another network and we are doing that remote so remote access
VPN and is this picture right here.
We can see how it is work.
So for example let's imagine that we are at a hotel and we have the company that we are working on right
here and on the company we have internal server which has some confidential files that we need to access
in order to do our work from remote on this hotel.
So this hotel is providing a public network meaning that any guests at this hotel can get a free code
at the reception and they can log in.
So they are all within the same tunnel because they are all using the same internet connection and this
Internet connection from the hotel is then connected to the broader internet.
And the same is our company our company has some internal resources and it is connected to the Internet
so that it can transmit information.
So what we want to do with our client side VPN is to create our own dedicated tunnel using the already
existent existing tunnel.
So when we connect to a VPN client either by a VPN service then we have brought or by using some official
company connection that has been set up by our our I.T. department.
We will actually be creating a closed tunnel between us as a user and our company.
So this is illustrated with this blue line right here.
So this blue line will be a virtual private network within this broader tunnel.
That is the entire hotel network and its connection to the Internet.
So we will have our own little close connection from our computer to the public route of the hotel from
there are a two tier Internet.
And then over the Internet and down to the company.
So this means that all information that is going through this close tunnel is encrypted.
So if anyone tries to sniff up the packages or look at what data is transmitted all they will see is
some garbage because it's encrypted and they will not be able to read it.
So in that way we can securely access the server on in the company and we can say I want to download
this file and then this file will get transferred from the Internet company server of the router and
then through the Internet and down to the hotel where we are sitting using this secured line a lot of
companies also have policies for using viewpoints because they are aware of that if they don't have
a VPN connection set up right then the information that you are accessing in from the company internal
resource will be exposed or might be exposed and used by competitors.
So this was client to site VPN.
Then we have side to side VPN side to side VPN is compared to client side where we connect two networks
together.
And this is especially used in business related matters where we have multiple offices that needs to
act as they are connected using the same network.
You can also do this by have a leased line meaning that you have a dedicated Internet line only for
your company use but that is in most cases very expensive and VPN is a cheaper alternative to that.
And then when you have such VPN side to side it can either be persistence mean that it is available
at all times whether or not you're using it or it can be dial on demand meaning that it will only be
activated once you need the weapon.
But compared to say to planned where we had it from our single computer and then connecting to our company
we are now sitting at this office too and we want to have the employees of this office feel that as
they were sitting at the main office because at the main office we have all our servers and the employees
of office two should also be able to use these resources.
So the entire office internet connection will be connected to the office one internet connection meaning
that there will be a tunnel from office one to office two so any device that is logging on to the office
to Internet and using the secured password and so on.
But as soon as they get locked into this internet they will actually have an active VPN tunnel to office
one meaning that no matter if you're sitting in office to office one your computer will actually act
as it was sitting in the office one because you will have the same access rights.
So by using this you can get past the normal firewalls which should be set up at any company where they
don't allow access from outside.
But by using this VPN the firewalls will see that.
OK.
This is actually a resource that is on the right network and I will let it through.
So this is two different kind of weapons and in the next lecture we will look at what protocols are
used and ribbons because VPN is not a protocol on its own on its own.
It relies on a lot of different protocols.
So we need to take a closer look at how this entire encryption technique is actually used utilized by
the VPN service.
So I will see you in the next lecture.